‘The Few' Churchill's speech, August 20, 1940
The great air battle which has been in progress over this Island for the last few weeks has
recently attained a high intensity. It is too soon to attempt to assign limits either to its scale
or to its duration. We must certainly expect that greater efforts will be made by the enemy,
than any he has so far put forth. Hostile airfields are still being developed in France and the
Low Countries, and the movement of squadrons and material for attacking us is still
proceeding. It is quite plain that Herr Hitler could not admit defeat in his air attack on Great
Britain without sustaining most serious injury. If after all his boastings and bloodcurdling
threats and lurid accounts trumpeted round the world of the damage he has inflicted, of the
vast numbers of our Air Force he has shot down, so he says, with so little loss to himself; if
after tales of the panic-stricken British crushed in their holes cursing the plutocratic
Parliament which has led them to such a plight - if after all this his whole air onslaught were
forced after a while tamely to peter out, the Fuhrer's reputation for veracity of statement
might be seriously impugned. We may be sure, therefore, that he will continue as long as he
has the strength to do so, and as long as any preoccupations he may have in respect of the
Russian Air Force allow him to do so.
On the other hand, the conditions and course of the fighting have so far been favourable to
us. I told the House two months ago that, whereas in France our fighter aircraft were wont
to inflict a loss of two or three to one upon the Germans, and in the fighting at Dunkirk,
which was a kind of no-man's-land, a loss of about three or four to one, we expected that in
an attack on this Island we should achieve a larger ratio. This has certainly come true. It
must also be remembered that all the enemy machines and pilots which are shot down over
our Island, or over the seas which surround it, are either destroyed or captured; whereas a
considerable proportion of our machines, and also of our pilots, are saved, and soon again in
many cases come into action. A vast and admirable system of salvage, directed by the
Ministry of Aircraft Production, ensures the speediest return to the fighting line of damaged
machines, and the most provident and speedy use of all the spare parts and material. At the
same time the splendid - nay, astounding - increase in the output and repair of British
aircraft and engines which Lord Beaverbrook has achieved by a genius of organization and
drive, which looks like magic, has given us overflowing reserves of every type of aircraft, and
an ever-mounting stream of production both in quantity and quality.
The enemy is, of course, far more numerous than we are. But our new production already,
as I am advised, largely exceeds his, and the American production is only just beginning to
flow in. It is a fact, as I see from my daily returns, that our bomber and fighter strength now,
after all this fighting, are larger than they have ever been. We believe that we shall be able
to continue the air struggle indefinitely and as long as the enemy pleases, and the longer it
continues the more rapid will be our approach, first towards that parity, and then into that
superiority, in the air upon which in a large measure the decision of the war depends. The
gratitude of every home in our Island, in our Empire, and indeed throughout the world,
